# ESA SST-CCI Product Assessment Tools

## The CAR use case

The figures will be produced from the data so they will change. The table is fixed.

What I had envisaged was a web page which has all the figures from the CAR software with their captions.
There are a few hundred and many of these will be of little interest so each figure would have a little
checkbox next to it. If you want the figure in the report, you check the box. Beneath each figure will
be a text box in which you can add comments.

At the end of the webpage there will be  button that says "create CAR". When you press the button it
builds a word document (like the attached) which includes all the figures that were checked and adds
the appropriate captions. It will have a fixed "methods" section at the start then a "results" section
that consists of all the comments added to the web page.

Inputs would be a list of Figures from the CAR software and captions plus some standard text about
methods. The webpage user will provide their own input and interpretation via the checkboxes and
textboxes.

Output would be a word document or pdf containing the selected images.


## The PVIR use case

The template was for one sensor and for one in situ type - in the end we
will generate a skeleton for every sensor and every in situ type (each one
is then an appendix for the PVIR). Yes, the data for the tables will be
generated by the scripts that produce the figures.

For the website, I was hoping (as a minimum) we could have something like
a matrix of sensor (as rows) versus in situ type (as columns) selected by
radio buttons - then the page would display the figures and table of
statistics appropriate to that combination. Further segregation is
possible within each sensor/in situ combination but I think we should
discuss this before making any definite decisions.


## Copyright and licensing

This software is under copyright 2010-2014 by Brockmann Consult GmbH.

This software is distributed under the GNU General Public License. Further terms and conditions are described in the
accompanying LICENSE.txt file.


## Contact information

* Ralf Quast (ralf.quast@brockmann-consult.de)
* Tom Block (tom.block@brockmann-consult.de)
* Sabine Embacher(sabine.embacher@brockmann-consult.de)
